docker/project_systemds-3878.md, before:

# Data Integration and Large-Scale Analysis
## Student Project SYSTEMDS-3878

## Start

1. Fork systemds github on own account
2. Invite project member
1. Create SSH-key locally on computer
1. Add public key to github account
1. Clone project on computer (git clone git@\<link>.git)
1. Get a local version of the systemds project on the computer

### CONTRIBUTING.md

A commit or PR description is a public record of **what** change is being made and **why**.

#### Structure of the description

##### First Line

1. A summary of what the changeset.
2. A complete sentence, crafted as though it was an order.
    - an imperative sentence
    - Writing the rest of the description as an imperative is optional.
3. Follow by an empty line.

##### Body

It consists of the following.

1. A brief description of the problem solved.
2. Why this is the best approach?.
3. Shortcomings to the approach, if any (important!).

Additional info

4. background information
   - bug/issue/jira numbers
   - benchmark/test results
   - links to design documents
   - code attributions
5. Include enough context for
   - reviewers
   - future readers to understand the Changes.
6. Add PR number, like `Closes #1000`.

#### Example for us:

```text
[MINOR][SYSTEMDS-3878] Fix <file>.Dockerfile vulnerability (<bug>)

This commit fixes the following vulnerability identified by docker scout cves: <...>. The following changes have been made on the Dockerfile: <...>.
<Sources/justifications>
<Shortcomings>
<new epss score if not fully resolved>
```

## Docker scout cves

<https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/scout/cves/>

1. build systemds project \
   `./docker/build.sh`
   - builds the image: `apache/systemds:latest`
   - default runs: `docker image build -f docker/sysds.Dockerfile -t apache/systemds:latest .`
   - comment out build.sh to change selected `Dockerfile`
2. scout \
   `docker scout cves --details --format markdown -o <docker_subdirecory>/scout_results/<file>_output0.md --epss apache/systemds` (from root dir)
   - `--details`: verbose
   - `--format markdown`: output in markdown format
   - `-o <path_to_file>`: write output to file
   - `-epss`: show epss score
      - `--epss --epss-score 0.1`: filter for vulnerabilities that have more than 10% probability to be exploited.

<details>

   <summary> Directly from filesystem (Dockerfile)</summary>

   > Does Not Work

   > No vulnerability found

   ```bash
   cd project_root_directory
   docker scout cves --format markdown -o scout_results/output0.md --epss fs://docker_subdirecory/file.Dockerfile
   ```

   Add `--epss --epss-score 0.1` to filter for vulnerabilities that have more than 10% probability to be exploited.

</details>



### helloworld example

To test if docker scout works correctly on your machine, you can create a simple "Hello World" Dockerfile.

```bash
mkdir scout_hello_world
cd scout_hello_world
echo -e "FROM ubuntu:latest\nRUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y curl\nCMD ["curl", "https://example.com"]" > Dockerfile
docker build -t scout_hello_world_img .
# optionally check image: docker images | grep hello_world
docker scout cves scout_hello_world_img
```

1. create and enter new directory
2. Create new file `Dockerfile` and write content into it
1. Build docker image from current directory `.` \
   With name scout_hello_wolrd (`-t`)
1. Scout the image with the name


<details>
   
   <summary> Output from scout should be something similar to this: </summary>

   ```bash
      ✓ Image stored for indexing
      ✓ Indexed 160 packages
      ✓ Provenance obtained from attestation
      ✗ Detected 8 vulnerable packages with a total of 10 vulnerabilities


   ## Overview

                     │         Analyzed Image          
   ────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────────
   Target            │  scout_hello_world_img:latest   
      digest          │  65884f6905ea                   
      platform        │ linux/amd64                     
      vulnerabilities │    0C     0H     2M     8L      
      size            │ 73 MB                           
      packages        │ 160                             


   ## Packages and Vulnerabilities

      0C     0H     1M     0L  pam 1.5.3-5ubuntu5.5
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/pam@1.5.3-5ubuntu5.5?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ MEDIUM CVE-2025-8941
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2025-8941
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      

      0C     0H     1M     0L  tar 1.35+dfsg-3build1
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/tar@1.35%2Bdfsg-3build1?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ MEDIUM CVE-2025-45582
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2025-45582
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      

      0C     0H     0M     3L  curl 8.5.0-2ubuntu10.6
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/curl@8.5.0-2ubuntu10.6?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ LOW CVE-2025-9086
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2025-9086
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      
      ✗ LOW CVE-2025-10148
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2025-10148
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      
      ✗ LOW CVE-2025-0167
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2025-0167
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      

      0C     0H     0M     1L  libgcrypt20 1.10.3-2build1
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/libgcrypt20@1.10.3-2build1?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ LOW CVE-2024-2236
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2024-2236
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      

      0C     0H     0M     1L  coreutils 9.4-3ubuntu6.1
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/coreutils@9.4-3ubuntu6.1?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ LOW CVE-2016-2781
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2016-2781
         Affected range : >=0                                           
         Fixed version  : not fixed                                     
         CVSS Score     : 6.5                                           
         CVSS Vector    : CVSS:3.0/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:C/C:N/I:H/A:N  
      

      0C     0H     0M     1L  shadow 1:4.13+dfsg1-4ubuntu3.2
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/shadow@1%3A4.13%2Bdfsg1-4ubuntu3.2?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ LOW CVE-2024-56433
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2024-56433
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      

      0C     0H     0M     1L  gnupg2 2.4.4-2ubuntu17.3
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/gnupg2@2.4.4-2ubuntu17.3?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ LOW CVE-2022-3219
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2022-3219
         Affected range : >=0                                           
         Fixed version  : not fixed                                     
         CVSS Score     : 3.3                                           
         CVSS Vector    : CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:L  
      

      0C     0H     0M     1L  openssl 3.0.13-0ubuntu3.6
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/openssl@3.0.13-0ubuntu3.6?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ LOW CVE-2024-41996
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2024-41996
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      


   10 vulnerabilities found in 8 packages
   CRITICAL  0  
   HIGH      0  
   MEDIUM    2  
   LOW       8  


   What's next:
      View base image update recommendations → docker scout recommendations scout_hello_world_img:latest


   ```

</details>

## Trivy

## Summary of Changes

Refer to the [documentation](systemds-3878_summary-of-changes.md).

Commit message:

[MINOR][SYSTEMDS-3878] Fix CVE--2023--44981 org.apache.zookeeper critical vulnerability
This commit fixes the Critical vulnerability of org.apache.zookeeper by updating the package from version 3.6.3 to 3.8.3. The package is backwards compatible and no build error have been identified from the change. The pom.xml file has been modified. Zookeeper is a transitive dependency used by spark-core and hadoop-common. Both use the vulnerable version of zookeeper. As such, the newer, less-vulnerable version has been explicitly imported and has been excluded from both other package to prevent them from using the older version. The sysds.Dockerfile file has been modified to make docker build from the filesystem rather than cloning from the latest git version that does not contain the changes.
Spark-core and hadoop-common use a vulnerable version of zookeeper:
https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.hadoop/hadoop-common/3.3.6
https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.spark/spark-core_2.12/3.5.0
This solution was implemented as spark-core and hadoop-common do not show high-severity vulnerabilities and updating spark-core from a major version would have required many refactoring.

docker/project_systemds-3878.md, after:

# Data Integration and Large-Scale Analysis
## Student Project SYSTEMDS-3878

## Start

1. Fork systemds github on own account
2. Invite project member
1. Create SSH-key locally on computer
1. Add public key to github account
1. Clone project on computer (git clone git@\<link>.git)
1. Get a local version of the systemds project on the computer

### CONTRIBUTING.md

A commit or PR description is a public record of **what** change is being made and **why**.

#### Structure of the description

##### First Line

1. A summary of what the changeset.
2. A complete sentence, crafted as though it was an order.
    - an imperative sentence
    - Writing the rest of the description as an imperative is optional.
3. Follow by an empty line.

##### Body

It consists of the following.

1. A brief description of the problem solved.
2. Why this is the best approach?.
3. Shortcomings to the approach, if any (important!).

Additional info

4. background information
   - bug/issue/jira numbers
   - benchmark/test results
   - links to design documents
   - code attributions
5. Include enough context for
   - reviewers
   - future readers to understand the Changes.
6. Add PR number, like `Closes #1000`.

#### Example for us:

```text
[MINOR][SYSTEMDS-3878] Fix <file>.Dockerfile vulnerability (<bug>)

This commit fixes the following vulnerability identified by docker scout cves: <...>. The following changes have been made on the Dockerfile: <...>.
<Sources/justifications>
<Shortcomings>
<new epss score if not fully resolved>
```

## Docker scout cves

### Usage 

``` sh
docker scout cves --details --format markdown -o docker/scout_results/sysds_outputX.md --epss apache/systemds
```

To identify tricky packages, using the json output with `--format sarif` helps by showing the path to the vulnerable package.

<https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/scout/cves/>

1. build systemds project \
   `./docker/build.sh`
   - builds the image: `apache/systemds:latest`
   - default runs: `docker image build -f docker/sysds.Dockerfile -t apache/systemds:latest .`
   - comment out build.sh to change selected `Dockerfile`
2. scout \
   `docker scout cves --details --format markdown -o <docker_subdirecory>/scout_results/<file>_output0.md --epss apache/systemds` (from root dir)
   - `--details`: verbose
   - `--format markdown`: output in markdown format
   - `-o <path_to_file>`: write output to file
   - `-epss`: show epss score
      - `--epss --epss-score 0.1`: filter for vulnerabilities that have more than 10% probability to be exploited.

<details>

   <summary> Directly from filesystem (Dockerfile)</summary>

   > Does Not Work

   > No vulnerability found

   ```bash
   cd project_root_directory
   docker scout cves --format markdown -o scout_results/output0.md --epss fs://docker_subdirecory/file.Dockerfile
   ```

   Add `--epss --epss-score 0.1` to filter for vulnerabilities that have more than 10% probability to be exploited.

</details>

### Solve vulnerabilities

By using the CVE code and reading the description, most vulnerabilities have solutions or workarounds.

#### Upgrading the related package

One way to solve a vulerability is simply to upgrade the package it happens in.

> Sometimes, the package that raised the CVE is not included in the `pom.xml`. This can happen if the package is a dependency of another imported package. \
> `mvn dependency:tree` (output can be found [here](systemds-3878_summary-of-changes.md#output-of-mvn-dependencytree)) shows all imported packages.

### Inspection commands to find packages

[summary-of-changes.md](systemds-3878_summary-of-changes.md#toolbox)

### helloworld example

To test if docker scout works correctly on your machine, you can create a simple "Hello World" Dockerfile.

```bash
mkdir scout_hello_world
cd scout_hello_world
echo -e "FROM ubuntu:latest\nRUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y curl\nCMD ["curl", "https://example.com"]" > Dockerfile
docker build -t scout_hello_world_img .
# optionally check image: docker images | grep hello_world
docker scout cves scout_hello_world_img
```

1. create and enter new directory
2. Create new file `Dockerfile` and write content into it
1. Build docker image from current directory `.` \
   With name scout_hello_wolrd (`-t`)
1. Scout the image with the name


<details>
   
   <summary> Output from scout should be something similar to this: </summary>

   ```bash
      ✓ Image stored for indexing
      ✓ Indexed 160 packages
      ✓ Provenance obtained from attestation
      ✗ Detected 8 vulnerable packages with a total of 10 vulnerabilities


   ## Overview

                     │         Analyzed Image          
   ────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────────
   Target            │  scout_hello_world_img:latest   
      digest          │  65884f6905ea                   
      platform        │ linux/amd64                     
      vulnerabilities │    0C     0H     2M     8L      
      size            │ 73 MB                           
      packages        │ 160                             


   ## Packages and Vulnerabilities

      0C     0H     1M     0L  pam 1.5.3-5ubuntu5.5
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/pam@1.5.3-5ubuntu5.5?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ MEDIUM CVE-2025-8941
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2025-8941
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      

      0C     0H     1M     0L  tar 1.35+dfsg-3build1
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/tar@1.35%2Bdfsg-3build1?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ MEDIUM CVE-2025-45582
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2025-45582
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      

      0C     0H     0M     3L  curl 8.5.0-2ubuntu10.6
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/curl@8.5.0-2ubuntu10.6?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ LOW CVE-2025-9086
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2025-9086
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      
      ✗ LOW CVE-2025-10148
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2025-10148
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      
      ✗ LOW CVE-2025-0167
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2025-0167
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      

      0C     0H     0M     1L  libgcrypt20 1.10.3-2build1
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/libgcrypt20@1.10.3-2build1?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ LOW CVE-2024-2236
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2024-2236
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      

      0C     0H     0M     1L  coreutils 9.4-3ubuntu6.1
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/coreutils@9.4-3ubuntu6.1?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ LOW CVE-2016-2781
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2016-2781
         Affected range : >=0                                           
         Fixed version  : not fixed                                     
         CVSS Score     : 6.5                                           
         CVSS Vector    : CVSS:3.0/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:C/C:N/I:H/A:N  
      

      0C     0H     0M     1L  shadow 1:4.13+dfsg1-4ubuntu3.2
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/shadow@1%3A4.13%2Bdfsg1-4ubuntu3.2?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ LOW CVE-2024-56433
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2024-56433
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      

      0C     0H     0M     1L  gnupg2 2.4.4-2ubuntu17.3
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/gnupg2@2.4.4-2ubuntu17.3?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ LOW CVE-2022-3219
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2022-3219
         Affected range : >=0                                           
         Fixed version  : not fixed                                     
         CVSS Score     : 3.3                                           
         CVSS Vector    : CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:U/C:N/I:N/A:L  
      

      0C     0H     0M     1L  openssl 3.0.13-0ubuntu3.6
   pkg:deb/ubuntu/openssl@3.0.13-0ubuntu3.6?os_distro=noble&os_name=ubuntu&os_version=24.04

      ✗ LOW CVE-2024-41996
         https://scout.docker.com/v/CVE-2024-41996
         Affected range : >=0        
         Fixed version  : not fixed  
      


   10 vulnerabilities found in 8 packages
   CRITICAL  0  
   HIGH      0  
   MEDIUM    2  
   LOW       8  


   What's next:
      View base image update recommendations → docker scout recommendations scout_hello_world_img:latest


   ```

</details>

## Trivy

## Summary of Changes

Refer to the [documentation](systemds-3878_summary-of-changes.md).
