docs/devdocs/gpu-backend.md, before:

# Initial prototype for GPU backend

A GPU backend implements two important abstract classes:
1. `org.apache.sysml.runtime.controlprogram.context.GPUContext`
2. `org.apache.sysml.runtime.controlprogram.context.GPUObject`

The GPUContext is responsible for GPU memory management and gets call-backs from SystemML's bufferpool on following methods:
1. void acquireRead(MatrixObject mo)
2. void acquireModify(MatrixObject mo)
3. void release(MatrixObject mo, boolean isGPUCopyModified)
4. void exportData(MatrixObject mo)
5. void evict(MatrixObject mo)

A GPUObject (like RDDObject and BroadcastObject) is stored in CacheableData object. It contains following methods that are called back from the corresponding GPUContext:
1. void allocateMemoryOnDevice()
2. void deallocateMemoryOnDevice()
3. long getSizeOnDevice()
4. void copyFromHostToDevice()
5. void copyFromDeviceToHost()

## JCudaContext:
The current prototype supports Nvidia's CUDA libraries using JCuda wrapper. The implementation for the above classes can be found in:
1. `org.apache.sysml.runtime.controlprogram.context.JCudaContext`
2. `org.apache.sysml.runtime.controlprogram.context.JCudaObject`

### Setup instructions for JCudaContext:

1. Install CUDA 7.5
2. Install CuDNN v4 from http://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/redist/cudnn/v4/cudnn-7.0-win-x64-v4.0-prod.zip
3. Download JCuda binaries version 0.7.5b and JCudnn version 0.7.5. 

* For Windows: Copy the DLLs into C:\lib (or /lib) directory. Link: http://www.jcuda.org/downloads/downloads.html
* For Mac/Linux: TODO !!

Commit message:

[SYSTEMML-445] [WIP] Removing the jars from the PR and also updating the documentation

docs/devdocs/gpu-backend.md, after:

# Initial prototype for GPU backend

A GPU backend implements two important abstract classes:
1. `org.apache.sysml.runtime.controlprogram.context.GPUContext`
2. `org.apache.sysml.runtime.controlprogram.context.GPUObject`

The GPUContext is responsible for GPU memory management and initialization/destruction of Cuda handles.

A GPUObject (like RDDObject and BroadcastObject) is stored in CacheableData object. It gets call-backs from SystemML's bufferpool on following methods
1. void acquireDeviceRead()
2. void acquireDenseDeviceModify(int numElemsToAllocate)
3. void acquireHostRead()
4. void acquireHostModify()
5. void release(boolean isGPUCopyModified)

## JCudaContext:
The current prototype supports Nvidia's CUDA libraries using JCuda wrapper. The implementation for the above classes can be found in:
1. `org.apache.sysml.runtime.controlprogram.context.JCudaContext`
2. `org.apache.sysml.runtime.controlprogram.context.JCudaObject`

### Setup instructions for JCudaContext:

1. Follow the instructions from `https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads` and install CUDA 7.5.
2. Follow the instructions from `https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn` and install CuDNN v4.
3. Download install JCuda binaries version 0.7.5b and JCudnn version 0.7.5. Easiest option would be to use mavenized jcuda: 
```python
git clone https://github.com/MysterionRise/mavenized-jcuda.git
mvn -Djcuda.version=0.7.5b -Djcudnn.version=0.7.5 clean package
CURR_DIR=`pwd`
JCUDA_PATH=$CURR_DIR"/target/lib/"
JAR_PATH="."
for j in `ls $JCUDA_PATH/*.jar`
do
        JAR_PATH=$JAR_PATH":"$j
done
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:$JCUDA_PATH
```
4. Then you can invoke SystemML in standalone mode as follows:
```python
java -classpath $JAR_PATH:systemml-0.10.0-incubating-SNAPSHOT-standalone.jar -server org.apache.sysml.api.DMLScript -f MyDML.dml -exec singlenode ... 
```

Note for Windows users:
* CuDNN v4 is available to download: `http://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/redist/cudnn/v4/cudnn-7.0-win-x64-v4.0-prod.zip`
* If above steps doesn't work for JCuda, copy the DLLs into C:\lib (or /lib) directory.
